# Car-Rental-Management-System

In this project, we build up a car rental system for Western Sydney University with programming language Java. It is built based on object-oriented programming (OOP) principles by inheritance, encapsulation, dynamic message passing, object composition, etc. Those include but not limited to implementing interface, encapsulating variable and methods within classes, manipulating arrays of objects, selecting the procedural code to execute in response to a method call, realizing object composition by representing “has-a” relationships within a class and “is-a-type-of” relationship between class and object.  
This project focuses on system design phase in System Development Life Cycle (SDLC), illustrating the methods used to implement programming logic with OOP principles. Therefore, for now, we choose command prompt as the user interface and display the main menu and submenus. Once the system starts to run, users can access the information in the car rental system without or with minimal technical knowledge on the backend logic and deployment. The instructions to guide users to use this system has been included in this system along with any choice the users make while using this system. After testing phase, in the future, we shall move on to the next phase of SDLC, the implementation phase, and integrate a graphical user interface into this project. 
For the data storage, as this is a scalable project and the focus for now is to design a set of feasible programming logics, the data amount is only 10 car rental records. Ideally, if this program can run 10 records, it can run 100 or 10000 records as well. As a result, we choose text file as the database to store and retrieve data. 
Regarding the logical and physical design for car records, firstly, we create an array of car objects in CarReadWrite class, and retrieve car records from the input text file (the primary database) with Scanner library. For each car record, the system automatically scans every attribute value to create a new car object.  By doing this repeatedly, all the car records in the CarInput text files are transformed into car objects stored in the car list. During the program execution, if there is any need to store the modified car records to the user, the writeOutput method in the CarReadWrite will be called. Administrators can find the updated data in the output text file. 
